README.md, before:

# Text to Speech App

A Next.js application that converts text to speech using Google Cloud Text-to-Speech API. Users can input text, convert it to audio, and download the generated MP3 file.

## Features

- ✨ Clean and modern UI
- 🎤 Text to speech conversion using Google TTS
- 🎙️ Voice selection with 30+ female voices across multiple languages
- 🔒 Password protection for secure access
- 📥 Download audio files as MP3
- 🎨 Responsive design with Tailwind CSS
- ⚡ Fast and efficient API routes
- 🌊 Streaming audio playback

## Setup

1. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. **Set up environment variables:**
   
   Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory and add:
   ```
   GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=./tts-creds.json
   GOOGLE_PROJECT_ID=your-project-id
   GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_google_api_key_here
   APP_PASSWORD=hellfire@asdf
   ```
   
   **Note:** `APP_PASSWORD` is the password required to access the application. Change it to your preferred password.

3. **Run the development server:**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

4. **Open your browser:**
   
   Navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

## Getting Google Cloud Credentials

Google Cloud Text-to-Speech API requires service account authentication for server-side usage. API keys alone won't work.

### Option 1: Service Account (Recommended)

1. Go to the [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
2. Create a new project or select an existing one
3. Enable the **Cloud Text-to-Speech API**
4. Go to **IAM & Admin** > **Service Accounts**
5. Click **Create Service Account**
6. Give it a name (e.g., "tts-service") and click **Create and Continue**
7. Grant the role **Cloud Text-to-Speech API User**
8. Click **Done**
9. Click on the created service account
10. Go to the **Keys** tab
11. Click **Add Key** > **Create new key**
12. Choose **JSON** format and download the key file
13. Save the JSON file securely in your project (e.g., `google-credentials.json`)
14. Add to `.env.local`:
    ```
    GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=./google-credentials.json
    GOOGLE_PROJECT_ID=your-project-id
    GOOGLE_API_KEY=your-api-key-for-gemini
    ```

### Option 2: Service Account Key as Environment Variable

Instead of a file, you can store the service account JSON as an environment variable:

1. Follow steps 1-11 from Option 1
2. Copy the entire contents of the JSON file
3. Add to `.env.local`:
    ```
    GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY={"type":"service_account","project_id":"...","private_key":"..."}
    GOOGLE_API_KEY=your-api-key-for-gemini
    ```

**Note:** The `GOOGLE_API_KEY` is still needed for Gemini preprocessing. The service account is required for Text-to-Speech.

## Usage

1. **Login:** Enter the password (default: `hellfire@asdf`) to access the application
2. **Select Voice:** Choose from 30+ female voices in various languages (Wavenet and Standard)
3. **Enter Text:** Type or paste your text in the textarea
4. **Convert:** Click "Convert to Speech" to generate audio
5. **Play/Download:** Use the built-in player to listen or download the MP3 file

## Security

- Password protection is required for both frontend access and API calls
- Session tokens expire after 24 hours
- Passwords are stored securely in environment variables
- Backend API routes verify authentication tokens on every request

## Tech Stack

- **Next.js 14** - React framework
- **TypeScript** - Type safety
- **Tailwind CSS** - Styling
- **Google Cloud Text-to-Speech API** - TTS service

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Update environment configuration to use GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY for Google Cloud authentication. Modify README to reflect changes in setup instructions and clarify usage of service account credentials. Refactor token cleanup logic in token.ts for improved performance. Enhance error handling in TTS route for missing credentials.

README.md, after:

# Text to Speech App

A Next.js application that converts text to speech using Google Cloud Text-to-Speech API. Users can input text, convert it to audio, and download the generated MP3 file.

## Features

- ✨ Clean and modern UI
- 🎤 Text to speech conversion using Google TTS
- 🎙️ Voice selection with 30+ female voices across multiple languages
- 🔒 Password protection for secure access
- 📥 Download audio files as MP3
- 🎨 Responsive design with Tailwind CSS
- ⚡ Fast and efficient API routes
- 🌊 Streaming audio playback

## Setup

1. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. **Set up environment variables:**
   
   Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory and add:
   ```
   GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY={"type":"service_account","project_id":"...","private_key":"..."}
   GOOGLE_PROJECT_ID=your-project-id
   GOOGLE_API_KEY=your_google_api_key_here
   APP_PASSWORD=hellfire@asdf
   ```
   
   **Note:** 
   - `APP_PASSWORD` is the password required to access the application. Change it to your preferred password.
   - `GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY` should contain the entire JSON content from your service account key file (see setup guide below).

3. **Run the development server:**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

4. **Open your browser:**
   
   Navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

## Getting Google Cloud Credentials

Google Cloud Text-to-Speech API requires service account authentication for server-side usage. API keys alone won't work.

### Setup Steps (No JSON File Required)

1. Go to the [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
2. Create a new project or select an existing one
3. Enable the **Cloud Text-to-Speech API**
4. Go to **IAM & Admin** > **Service Accounts**
5. Click **Create Service Account**
6. Give it a name (e.g., "tts-service") and click **Create and Continue**
7. Grant the role **Cloud Text-to-Speech API User**
8. Click **Done**
9. Click on the created service account
10. Go to the **Keys** tab
11. Click **Add Key** > **Create new key**
12. Choose **JSON** format and download the key file
13. **Open the downloaded JSON file** and copy its entire contents
14. Add to `.env.local` as a single line (remove all line breaks):
    ```
    GOOGLE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY={"type":"service_account","project_id":"your-project-id","private_key_id":"...","private_key":"-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n...\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n","client_email":"...","client_id":"...","auth_uri":"...","token_uri":"...","auth_provider_x509_cert_url":"...","client_x509_cert_url":"..."}
    GOOGLE_PROJECT_ID=your-project-id
    GOOGLE_API_KEY=your-api-key-for-gemini
    APP_PASSWORD=hellfire@asdf
    ```

**Important Notes:**
- Copy the entire JSON content from the downloaded file
- Remove all line breaks and format it as a single line in `.env.local`
- Keep the JSON file secure and do NOT commit it to Git
- The `GOOGLE_API_KEY` is needed for Gemini preprocessing
- The service account credentials are required for Text-to-Speech

**Alternative:** If you prefer using a file, you can use `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=./path/to/file.json` instead, but the environment variable approach is recommended as it doesn't require managing files.

## Usage

1. **Login:** Enter the password (default: `hellfire@asdf`) to access the application
2. **Select Voice:** Choose from 30+ female voices in various languages (Wavenet and Standard)
3. **Enter Text:** Type or paste your text in the textarea
4. **Convert:** Click "Convert to Speech" to generate audio
5. **Play/Download:** Use the built-in player to listen or download the MP3 file

## Security

- Password protection is required for both frontend access and API calls
- Session tokens expire after 24 hours
- Passwords are stored securely in environment variables
- Backend API routes verify authentication tokens on every request

## Tech Stack

- **Next.js 14** - React framework
- **TypeScript** - Type safety
- **Tailwind CSS** - Styling
- **Google Cloud Text-to-Speech API** - TTS service

## License

MIT
